{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22160\viewh15580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
B: But political views, for example, last summer the revolutionary guard of Iran, it wasn\'92t a terrorist organisation \'97 now it is. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: it\'92s just simply the military of Iran.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It\'92s a very big organisation. I mean they\'92re actually not that wrong to put it under terrorist organisation if you ask me, as an Iranian. Because they work with Al qaeda, they work with Hezbollah, they work with many real terrorist organisations. So it\'92s not that wrong to put them under that category. But they are also in the economy of Iran. They\'92re very active. Many people are depending on them. And these people have jobs with them. They make a living. They have families and stuff. If you put the whole organisation and not for example the\'97 they have one branch, it\'92s only for stuff external to Iran, it\'92s called Quds, it\'92s like for the freeing of Palestinians. If they had put only that branch under terrorist organisations it would have been more realistic. Than putting the whole organisation which is \'97
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: But it\'92s a bit like Hezbollah, which is a very social organisation. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It is. Hezbollah is a child of the Revolutionary Guard.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: So what does it mean that they banned the Revolutionary Guard?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: they didn\'92t ban it, they listed the whole organisation as a terrorist organisation. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: who did? Facebook?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: No, America. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: which means that\'85?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Facebook does whatever the government of America says. Not Europe. Not the UN. But America. Sometimes UN and America are same so it doesn\'92t matter. But if America says someone is a terrorist, then that person is a terrorist for facebook. Because Facebook 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: follows America\'85 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: is an American company. Yeah, that\'92s pretty easy to comprehend. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But they are in the economy\'97
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Lets stay with that question, which is what does it mean to be banned on Facebook? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It depends on the user. If I put a picture of someone from, let\'92s say the Revolutionary Guard. If I put the picture on my Facebook profile for example. And I praise the person, not condemn him, they\'92ll take down the picture and mark my profile as misuse or something like that and they block me for a couple of days. And if i do it again for one week and after the third time like 3 months, and after doing it a third or fourth time they delete my account. They don\'92t do anything about it. If I try to recruit for a terroristic organisation\'97for example ISIS, or anything, doesn\'92t matter what as long as they recognise the organisation as terroristic\'97 if I try to recruit for the organisation and I live in a country that has good ties with America. For example, Germany or France. They try to at least inform the police, to come and get me. If it actually happens\'85 I\'92ve never seen it, I cannot be sure.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: Have you ever reported a profile?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Of course I did it. Many times. But you can\'92t be sure. You don\'92t see it. It\'92s just a button. Ding. That\'92s it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: What does the button say?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Nothing! It\'92s just a button.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Where is the button?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: On the keyboard. Whatever they tell you. They change it sometimes. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: What was the button?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Um.. it depends. For ignore it was I. For deleting something it was D. For reporting something it was R. But if you wanted to report something you had to push for example R, then you went into another category and you had to say for what you want to report, and then you have to choose. Between for example suicide, or terrorism, or credible violence. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Credible violence was for example, if say, somebody says, \'93I want to kill Angela Merkel today.\'94 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It\'92s credible violence. Because she\'92s the head of the state. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Wow, if you just say that?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: If you just say that. And they report it to the police. If the police actually does something or if they report it to the police in Germany, I can\'92t say. If they report it to police in America, who knows? We don\'92t know. We just say report it for credible violence. That\'92s it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Can I ask you something, because we must focus on images. Do you have\'97 in your documentation or in your head\'97 a list of how you would categorise the images?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yes. There are sensitive categories, for example, sexual exploitation of children. It\'92s very sensitive. But there are other categories like bullying or harassment which are not that sensitive. Terroristic stuff, violence, and credible violence are sensitive. Calling for violence is not sensitive. You know? Everything is on the same line, but under every category, that\'92s where you have to say if it\'92s sensitive or not. Let\'92s say sexual content, crime, harassment, violence, bullying, all of them are like beside each other on the same line, but they have like other levels. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: Would you rate them from one to ten in extremity?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: One to five. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: And does it go A-Z. Or not? And the categories, what are they? V for violence? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It was like that. Then they changed it to codes. Like 400, 300... 400-1-A-23, something like that. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \uc0\u8232 Adam: can you remember any of them? Got them written down? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: No. I don\'92t have them. But it was random. I can tell you that. It was totally random. Yeah, because they\'92d been leaked two or three times and they changed it. They had leaks with the documents that I had. It was on Wikileaks. And also the S\'fcddeutsche Zeitung wrote about it. I know the keyboard stuff, but the codes I don\'92t. We used to have a list for the codes\'85 Because you can\'92t remember like 20-25 codes. After doing it for 6 months\'97
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: how long did you do it for?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I was there for 1 year. Something like that..
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: So describe your day. What was your day like? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: You know, you used to go to work\'85 ummm.. Let's say i start with my job. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 You didn\'92t even have to turn on your PC because we had to work 3 shifts. Morning, evening and then night. The PC is always on. Just go there, you have to log-in. You log in with you account. There were two applications. One of them was for the tickets. They call it tickets.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: when somethings flagged?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Mmhmm, exactly. And the other one was internal\'97 for new policies and emails and so on. You have to read your emails first and see if there are any new policies, any new meetings. Once a month there were meetings for two or three hours for new policies and stuff\'85 Also if you had any problems you could tell them. Also there were just sometimes\'85 they would say, today at 2 there\'92s a meeting and you have to be there. Or there\'92s a meeting but you don\'92t have to be there. It was like that. There were policies that you had to learn for yourself. Like there wasn\'92t anyone to teach you. You had to read them\'85 There were sometimes also tests you could do. For tests there was usually money. If you could score a 1 and 2 from 10, 1 and 2 were the best, you could get 100 euros. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Let's say you\'92ve read your stuff. Your emails, your new policies and other things. Then you have to open your application and\'85 well they changed it again. At first as I started there were categories. You couldn\'92t choose a category. You could only choose whether to do pictures, videos or comments. It was like that \'97 at first. And for people who were looking at profiles, like real profiles and spam and stuff they had something else. I never worked there. Some profiles are fake profiles and if it\'92s reported you have to provide an ID card, just to prove that you\'92re you. I mean it happened to my wife actually! 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Some people were harassing my wife. It wasn\'92t her real name on her profile. They were harassing her but she didn\'92t say anything disrespectful so they couldn\'92t\'97 I\'92m sure they reported her for something that she said\'97 but they couldn\'92t block my wife because she didn\'92t say anything against the rules. But her name was not a real name. So they reported her whole profile for being a fake profile. She was blocked and she had to provide her ID card, and they unblocked her again.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Anyway\'85 anyway\'85 At first it was like that, you could choose between pictures videos and comments, and then they changed it to a pool again. A pool of information or tickets. You had to just click on it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: you didn\'92t know what was coming up?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: You couldn\'92t get ready for anything. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Did it used to scare you what was coming?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: At first, yeah! But later, like 6 or 7 months later I didn\'92t have any feelings anymore. Sometimes I used to\'85 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 One thing I cannot forget it. I just cannot forget it. There was a guy. Teenager maybe. He was teaching people how to kill themselves. He was actually promoting people to go kill themselves. He had a knife but he didn\'92t cut himself. He said, \'93you know it\'92s like this. You have to do from here to here, because the veins are here\'94 (gestures from the wrist up to the elbow on his forearm). 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Oh there was also this other video\'85 ah I won\'92t tell you. You can just imagine, you see someone who is\'85 ok now i have to say it. All of a sudden you see a girl who is not cutting herself but like hitting herself with a knife. Putting the knife in her body. Stabbing herself! If you see that all of a sudden, when what do you do? I mean you delete it\'97 you have to delete it because you see blood coming out. It\'92s also a rule. If you don\'92t see blood coming out, even if you see that she\'92s cutting herself but you don\'92t see blood or skin tissue, you can\'92t delete it. Facebook used to say, I mean I don\'92t know how it is now, we are not sure if it\'92s not fake. Because if there isn\'92t any blood there, maybe it\'92s fake. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: did you have a specific number of tickets that you had to do a day or a month? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: At first it was 3500. Then after they changed it to codes it took longer to search for the code and put it in\'85 they put it down to 2500. Because it just took longer. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 It was more difficult because you couldn\'92t choose what you were doing. I mean if you\'92re doing pictures it\'92s not that bad. Because with the pictures you cannot see many things. In a video you have to wait for the moment\'85 Really! You couldn\'92t just fast-forward it\'85 I mean you could fast-forward it but you had to watch it. Just wait for the moment. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: and then you can delete it?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: We had ISIS videos that were very cinematic. You used to think it was a movie. Then they behead someone. Very cinematically, but it\'92s real. They behead someone and then like\'85 I mean it was very shocking. Very. I thought maybe it\'92s a movie about prisoners. All of them were very clean actually. I mean the clothes were\'85 It was clean and HD. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: And you saw this a lot? Often?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Of course. At least every day. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: A beheading?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: At least once a day.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: So it means that there was a beheading happening every day.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: it used to, i mean now ISIS is not that active. But as it was active, of course. We deleted it but it was deleted from that profile, not from the system. It wasn\'92t deleted on the system. So the video used to come again and again\'85 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: But it makes you feel like a fool, right? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Of course. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 We used to tell our bosses and managers\'85 Facebook has its European headquarters in Ireland, in Dublin. We used to have meetings with the facebook people who\'92d come from Dublin. We\'92d see them once a month, twice a month\'85 maybe. The employees and the managers.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: Were you working for Facebook itself or another company? 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: It was a sub-company. It was called Avato Consulting. And Avato itself is from Bertelsmann. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 (explains a bit about these two companies)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 You used to see every picture, every video, maybe every comment 10 times a day, maybe 5 times a day. There was lots of porn. That wasn\'92t that bad. I mean, you know what porn is at least\'85 It\'92s not beheading. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 But like\'85 I don\'92t know... they set people on fire\'85 alive. You know? When there was a video of someone being killed, you had to be sure that they were dead. You know... if they threw someone off a mountain, then you were pretty sure that person was dead. So you could delete it. But if someone was being thrown from a tree, but you couldn\'92t see if they were dead or not, you couldn\'92t delete it! You could mark it as disturbing. I don\'92t know if you\'92ve seen something on Facebook which is blurred? You can still see it if you want. There\'92s a warning that it\'92s disturbing but you can still see it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: So children don\'92t see it right away? Why do they make it blurred?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: So nobody sees it right away. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Just to warn you. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: But they don\'92t tell you what\'92s in it! It makes you want to see it. It has the opposite effect. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \uc0\u8232 Anyway, there was lots of cursing, harassment and bullying. Lots of threatening. People used to say they wanted to kill themselves on that day. There were tickets from 6 days before where someone said \'93I want to kill myself today.\'94 But it was 6 days ago. Then we couldn\'92t even report it, because it was too old. We could only tell their friends to check on them. You couldn\'92t choose the friend\'85 but we could tell the system to tell a friend. And the system itself chose the friend.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: it would pick it based on the algorithm or the level of interaction? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Exactly. If the person talked to somebody more than once a week, they used to tell them. If you have a lot of contact with that person\'85 like I don\'92t know, the mother? (Laughs). We couldn\'92t choose the person. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 With children it was very sensitive. 
\f2\i Very
\f0\i0  sensitive. Anything that was even resembling child exploitation, harassment or something, regarding children \'97 we could delete it. Almost everything, like 95%. And the other 5% we were really not sure. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 With the adult stuff\'85 I don\'92t know what they were doing. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: What do you mean?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Ummm\'85 if you see that somebody is torturing someone else. You\'92re not sure if its a fetish, or if its real. I mean, if you ask me, if I wasn\'92t sure, I\'92d have to delete it. Because maybe it\'92s real. But Facebook says exactly the opposite. Because if you\'92re not sure, we cannot delete it. You know? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: but why? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I don\'92t know, ask them. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Because they don\'92t want to lose customers.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: \'a0Of course. That\'92s why. If they start deleting everything, everyone leaves. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: How much, from your own experience, did it feel like the work you were doing was about actually protecting people, and how much of it felt like it was stopping people from seeing content that would make them leave the service? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: A couple of times I actually had the feeling that maybe I helped somebody. In a year maybe 4 times. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Somebody would write half an hour before, \'93 I want to kill myself\'94. We used to take these things very seriously. So i reported it and I hoped that somebody would go to that person and help that person. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Did you know the name of the profile?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Very rarely. If it was relevant\'85 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: to prevent you from contacting them.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yeah. Also because of German data protection laws. We could only see it if I reported something that was related to myself. (talks about this a bit more but it\'92s a bit long and confusing).
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 There was also other sensitive stuff. For example, if somebody was the subject of rape for example. If I put a picture of that person on my profile or somewhere, and wrote something regarding the rape. For example, \'93she deserved it,\'94 then it doesn\'92t matter who reports it, we can delete it. We have to also make sure that person was raped, or the victim of a rape. It was a little bit complicated sometimes. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: so did you have to do research to see if...?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yes.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: So you\'92re researching all these terrible acts.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yes.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: Which\'85 in the case of rape. Over 90% of rapes don\'92t get reported. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: You know, for example, there was this American singer, Ariana Grande. She said herself that she was the victim of rape years ago. There was one ticket where somebody put up her picture and made a joke out of her rape. That one was pretty easy. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 But if there is a picture where you don\'92t know the person. And the person who reported it isn\'92t in the picture, what can you do? Nothing. I can ignore it. Maybe there was a group of people who knew that person, but that person wasn\'92t famous, not to me nor to google. So you can\'92t do nothing. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 There was also Nazi stuff. Lots of it. But it was also complicated. All these groups, like the Ku Klux Klan, they have their own symbols. Some symbols were forbidden on Facebook, some weren\'92t. The swastika, for example is forbidden. But the other one\'85 (the Celtic Cross) it\'92s not forbidden\'85 I think as long as there\'92s no comment on it. But everybody knows it\'92s a Nazi symbol. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 If there\'92s a swastika but someone is condemning it, to say \'93it\'92s bad\'94, you could ignore it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Then there was Osama bin Laden, the Al Qaeda guy. Posting only his picture was forbidden. His picture on a news website or facebook page, was ok. Praising it was not ok. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 (we discuss whether or not a bunch of other people are banned: Hitler, Mao, Gaddafi, Mussolini, Stalin around 30:00.)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 There are protected groups \'97 black people, white people, both are protected. Chinese people, everything Asian. Arabs are protected, Germans are protected, Persians are protected\'85 as long as you call anyone by the name of their group. Iranians are not protected. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Persians are protected but Iranians are not?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Because Iran has many different languages\'85 Maybe they changed it but as I was there it wasn\'92t protected. Another thing. For example, Europeans are not protected, but Germans are protected. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Tell me some of the rules about images. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: If there are comments on the images, the rules are different to if there are no comments. For example with sexual pictures, it should be clear. If there\'92s a picture of a naked man, you should see everything. Or else you would just ignore it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 If there is a sexual activity, but you can\'92t see anything. Even if you know there\'92s a sexual activity, you can\'92t do anything. You could mark it as a sexual pose or a sexual activity but not clear, but we couldn\'92t delete it. It used to go to the system and it would be marked in the system as that. It had to be clear. Because as you said, Facebook doesn\'92t want to lose customers. Not customers\'85 money makers (laughs).
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 With terroristic stuff, you should see a symbol. You should see a real picture of somebody from an organisation. For example, the head of Hezbollah or somebody from the Iranian revolutionary guard. Or somebody from the KKK, if you know him. If you see that it\'92s the KKK because of their clothes. If you can see their pictures, you can google them and see if that person is famous\'85 and if they\'92re acting like it, you cannot delete it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: what if it\'92s a group of people wearing these Ku Klux Klan outfits? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Depends on the picture. Every time, if you\'92re not sure, you have to google it. Because sometimes there\'92s some news or something. (talks about a white supremacist running people over but the point is not very clear. 35:00)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Child exploitation is easier. That\'92s a little bit different. Very young babies aren\'92t as protected as toddlers, toddlers are more protected than teenagers, teenagers are more protected than adults. For example, there are many pictures of naked babies\'85 people put up these pictures on social media. But it\'92s something sweet, not something sexual. So you can\'92t say it\'92s sexaulising a child. But if there is a 3-4 year old toddler, it\'92s different. You could delete those photos and also mark them as child sexualisation. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: were there every any complaints from people who put up pictures of their child and it got taken down?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It happened once, during my time as a moderator. Some guy from Norway put up a picture from the Vietnam War (Napalm Girl by Phan Th\uc0\u7883  Kim Ph\'fac). They deleted it and that journalist, he put a long comment on Facebook and everybody saw it. We got a new update, only for that picture. Something similar we could delete it. But they said, if you see 
\f2\i this
\f0\i0  picture, don\'92t delete it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: how do you remember those pictures? Do you have a list of pictures?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: No. Nothing! You just have your memory (laughs).
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 We used to have tickets and at the end of the day, like half an hour before the day was done or the day after that. We used to get an update from our direct boss, we used to call him the SME, I don\'92t know why. He used to come to us with 10% of our work, randomly. He said, \'93you made that decision here, why did you do that?\'94 And you had to defend yourself. It was like an interrogation. Everyday. Either at the end of the day or in the morning. Or whenever they had time. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: and what were you paid?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: at first it was like 1300 euros a month. Gross. Netto it was 1050, 1090 something like that. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: 5 days a week? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yes. If you had a night shift you could get 50% more for that day. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: How many hours?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: 8 hours. You used to have a half hour lunch break. It was German law. But if you worked 8 hours you can choose when to do it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: So what sort of training did they provide when you started? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Two weeks. Two weeks of in-house training. There was a guy, he was from Lebanon. He was a pretty cool guy. I mean you could see it in his face that he was finished. He was like really finished. Very tired every day. Anyway two weeks, they didn\'92t tell us how brutal that job is. I\'92m not exaggerating. They didn\'92t make us ready for the job. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 During those two weeks we got our sources, our information. We had very few examples from the tickets. On the last day or last two days, we could do tickets that people had already done. The next week we started the job and I was like\'85. Pffff\'85. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: how was it brutal for you?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I\'92ve never seen somebody beheading somebody else. (Everyone laughs). How can that be not brutal? Or Child molesting\'85 I didn\'92t see it that often, maybe 20 or 30 times in a year. I mean for a normal person maybe you see it once or twice in your life!
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: that\'92s a lot. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: another thing that I hate\'97 i still hate it. Hurting animals on Facebook can\'92t be deleted. I saw videos of people setting animals on fire. We can\'92t do anything. Just mark as disturbing\'85 I have two cats. I couldn\'92t \'97 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Killing a person, i used to see that every day and it was not as bad as killing an animal, because I have two cats at home. I used to remembered my cats, really. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: do you think you become desensitized to the violence over time?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I have\'85 how should i say it. My tolerance is higher now. Much higher. Much much higher.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: Did you have to feel numb to keep going?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: You mind does it for you. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: It\'92s automatic. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 B: you don\'92t see anything anymore. What you see is\'85 pixels, words and just a part of a picture. You don\'92t see the whole picture or the whole video anymore. You search for the crucial point of that comment or picture. Your mind searches for that thing and ignores everything else. For example, if somebody is setting an animal on fire or hitting it, but in the background somebody is killing a person, you don\'92t see the animal anymore. Your mind ignores it. You concentrate on the background, where somebody is killing that person... And I see guts coming out of the stomach. Because of that I can delete it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: do you think your mind is searching for the thing that allows it to stop viewing that image. And really, that\'92s what you end up searching for\'85 the thing that can allow you to move onto the next thing.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Yeah, exactly. If you\'92re focused on what is happening in the picture, you cannot live. At first I used to come home very angry, very bitter, very sad. I don\'92t get sad that often, I get angry. My wife used to be very sad, because I was angry. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 At first I thought, we are fighting against violence on facebook and I\'92m protecting people. But after a while, I saw that a video I just deleted was still on Facebook\'85 I\'92m not doing anything. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Your mind tries to protect you. Tries to protect you from going crazy. It\'92s nothing that you choose. It just happens. If you see something brutal every day, after one or two months \'97 it depends on the person, how sensitive they are \'97 after a while you just don\'92t have any feelings anymore, it just goes away. I mean, if you ask me, you degrade from being human. Because humans without feelings are nothing. Even animals have feelings. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 My view of people has changed. Very much. I don\'92t think people are nice anymore\'85 I don\'92t tell them. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: It\'92s probably ruined your trust
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I always have my options open before I go somewhere, before I start doing something. Sometimes there are people who surprise me for being good. And I say, \'93oh wow\'85that person is good\'94. But I still\'85 no.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Why?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I guess I\'92ve become more conservative than before. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: In terms of?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Everything. Politically, in my life, how I interact even with my family. You know, I say, \'93toughen up\'94. For example if I see somebody who has a problem in his life. I\'92ll say, \'93there are much bigger problems in life than what you think.\'94 He\'92ll say \'93I\'92m tired, I\'92m depressed.\'94 I don\'92t believe in depression anymore! I cannot accept it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 If you see people who are struggling in life to stay alive in war...I\'92ve seen so many pictures of people who were bombed! I saw many photos of children who lost limbs, legs, hands... And i think, that person has it difficult. If someone comes to me complaining about his boss, I\'92ll just say, \'93toughen up.\'94 And it\'92s reality. But also not that nice (everyone laughs). But it\'92s changing\'85 I\'92m changing now.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Can you feel that it\'92s going away?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 -------
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I made my peace with it it. I accepted it. That period that I was working there\'85 that wasn\'92t a good time. And that\'92s it. If somebody asks me, how was it, how was the job, can I also work there I say noooo! Don\'92t do it! Go and work for the post office or something. It\'92s a nice job. And it\'92s also sport. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 But I accepted it. What can you do?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: But did it really change you?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Of course. It changed me really. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Feels like a war zone or something\'85
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It was like a war zone. Because you had to fight whatever was coming at you. To not accept it. I don\'92t know if the word is right\'97 but to not yield to it. To go under, go down. Because I said, you have to also live. You have a life. People have families.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 I couldn\'92t think about it outside of that building. I mean I stopped thinking about it outside of that building. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Ayala: It\'92s like there was a border. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It was like that. It was like having two personalities. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: Were you able to leave that work in the building and just say\'85 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I tried to. We are not machines. I tried to ignore it, I tried not to think about it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 (53:00-54:00 omitted. He talks about how he deleted instagram and what he uses facebook for)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: I have another question. The colleagues who worked with you\'97 did you guys talk about the effects of the job?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: We used to talk about it when I was working there. Now we don\'92t anymore because actually they\'92re not allowed to talk about it. We talk about who\'92s still working there, how are they going, but we don\'92t talk about the job itself\'85 yeah, they are not allowed to. I wasn\'92t allowed to. Even now I\'92m not supposed to be talking about it because we signed a contract. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: but if you were really bothered by something, were you allowed to say something about it? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: We used to get sometimes suicide videos or child molestation videos. Sometimes it was too brutal not to talk about it. Because we had to share our feelings at least with each other! To know that someone understands me\'85 a little bit better than being totally alone, you know? And sometimes people used to give us a tip. Like, if you see that video, delete it. Because I know there is something in it. So it was a bit easier. One person seeing it is better than everyone seeing it. Sometimes there was a warning for a video or a picture saying, \'93if you see it, delete it.\'94 But sometime you wouldn\'92t get it, someone else got it. We talked about it with each other as we worked there. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 I knew many people who couldn\'92t do the job anymore and just went. There was a lady who came from Italy. She couldn\'92t get help from the government and was forced to work somewhere to pay her rent. It was the only job that she could find because she couldn\'92t speak German. She talked to our boss like 10 times, 15 times over 3 months, to change her position. She asked him to put her on profiles, for example. With profiles you just have to check whether they\'92re fake or not\'85 she asked our boss to put her there because she couldn\'92t take it, it was too brutal for her. She was in her mid-forties and had a child. Many people used to work there because they had to. Many people came here from South America for example to study and find work, but they couldn\'92t find anything else and they had to find some way to live! Nobody liked the work. Except if you don\'92t have to do the tickets. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 I got sick quite often at first when I started working there, because I wasn\'92t prepared mentally. It wasn\'92t like a mental or emotional kind of sickness, it was that I couldn\'92t move myself. I had pain in my joints for example. But I wasn\'92t actually ill\'85 I didn\'92t have a virus or anything. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: do you think it was psychosomatic? 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I think so. That\'92s what my doctor told me. She asked me what I did for a living and I told her, and she said it\'92s because of the job. After the third time I was sick, my boss told me, \'93you\'92re getting sick too often.\'94 They told me, \'93if you get sick two more times we won\'92t keep you after the probation period.\'94 So I had to toughen up. That\'92s it.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: So what happened? Did the pain go away?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: I forgot it. But I was angry (laughs). I used to smoke much more than now. 
\f2\i Much
\f0\i0  more than now. But I was good so nobody said anything about me. I was good at doing my tickets. And I could\'92ve been promoted if I stayed but I didn\'92t. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: and what made you leave?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: As I said I\'92m an IT specialist. My German wasn\'92t that good as I was working in that company\'85 (story of how he found his new job from 1:01:00 until 1:03:04).
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 From 1:03:04 we talk about his new job and meat. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: the range of things you were dealing with on Facebook is obviously much greater but in a way it made me think of people who work in a meat factory, who are processing animals for food. They have a similar way of switching off. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 (more omitted until 01:11:00)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Did it change your dreams? Did you dream stuff?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: \'a0At first, a lot. Especially about beheadings and animals. Child rape I only saw like 10 times... \'a010-15 times. Like a couple of times it was from South East Asia. And the video was old so we couldn\'92t do anything. We could only delete it. If the video was new we could report it to some police or something but if the video is old\'85 like it\'92s from one week ago, you can\'92t do anything. Just delete it.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: One week is old?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: One day is old!
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: Bloody hell. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Now I laugh when I think about it. But at the time I was like crazy. Yeah\'85 people are assholes. Really. Let me tell you something. When I say people are assholes, I don\'92t mean all of them, but 10% 15% are really bad, and from that like 2% are evil. Real evil. The rest of them are normal.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: so the tickets are just a bunch of evil people! And who declares a ticket a ticket?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Somebody reports it \'97 the comment or the picture. If they are not reported, nothing will happen to them. The pictures will stay up. So if I go on a profile or a page and I see a video, I don\'92t like it but I don\'92t report it, it stays. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: Because now \'97to use a sad example\'97 in Christchurch there was a terrorist attack on two mosques. The video was uploaded 1.5million times because the guy live streamed it. But there was another one or so million uploads that were stopped at the point of upload. Or at least that\'92s what facebook has said. So I think the algorithm has figured it out and stopped it. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: they have been developing an AI to recognize some videos. After sometime the AI learns to stop some data. But the videos that are still up online, they remain there until someone removes them.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: you can\'92t search the system and delete them?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: Until now, no. The mentality at Facebook is like that. If the people are happy with it and they don\'92t have a problem with it, it will stay there. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: even if it\'92s against the community standards?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: How would we know if it is?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: Right. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Adam: So you can\'92t go into the system and pull it out?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: they can, of course. But they don\'92t. They can do it but they don\'92t do it. They can just mark the shape of the file or the kind of data they get from the file and give it to the system and say delete all this similar data. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Zie: if there\'92s someone who is a Neo-nazi and all his friends are neo-nazis and he\'92s constantly posting pictures of Hitler, and no one reports it\'85
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: It will just stay there. I know many AFD people who are posting the whole time against Muslims and stuff. \'93Throw out all the immigrants, all of them!\'94 \'93Germany \'97 Wir sind das Volk.\'94 I mean, that phrase itself, \'93Wir sind das Volk\'94 is forbidden! It\'92s from Nazi Germany. But since nobody reports it, nobody deletes it. And so it stays there. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 (1:18:00 Talks about father in law\'92s racist comment...)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Bruce: how would you compare the experience of looking at these pictures for Der Greif to your job at facebook?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 B: two words\'85 Happy days!
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
}